# Webpack
Webpack does the heavy lifting of assets compilation and transformation. Webpack allows importing of Sass, images, fonts, and other assets into javascript files, bundling output files like CSS and javascript. There are three webpack config files:

- `webpack.shared.config.js` The majority of loader and plugin configuration related to source/
- `webpack.drupal.config.js` Configuration specific to apps/drupal
- `webpack.pl.config.js` Configuration specific to apps/pl

The `pl` and `drupal` configurations import the `shared` configuration, providing app-specific customizations. You are encouraged to read through all three files to understand how assets are parsed and prepared. New apps can be added in a similar manner.

# Webpack dev server
Running `npm start` compiles Pattern Lab, compiles all asset bundles, then starts a hot reloading webpack dev server. 

All static html files generated by Pattern Lab will be served at http://0.0.0.0/pl and all modifications to assets on the dependency chain will be automatically injected into the browser. 

This means that you can work on Sass and javascript, the bundle will recompile, and the browser will reload rapidly. Pattern Lab html regeneration from Twig file changes triggers a hard-refresh of the Webpack dev server browser.

The Webpack dev server also features proxying css and javascript assets into a running local Drupal site. This means that these assets can avoid Drupal caching and provide hot reloading while working in Drupal. Write up coming soon.


```js
/**
 * Webpack config and setup.
 */
// Import webpack config for PL
const wpconfig = require('./webpack.pl.config');
// Webpack Dev Server config used for local development. See all available config options:
// https://webpack.js.org/configuration/dev-server/#devserver
const serverconfig = {
  host: '0.0.0.0',
  port: '8080',
  contentBase: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist/'), // dev server starts from this folder.
  hot: true, // Inject css/js into page without full refresh
  historyApiFallback: true, // Finds default index.html files at folder root
  inline: true, // Injects all the webpack dev server code right in the page
  stats: {
    colors: true, // Colored terminal output.
    hash: true,
    version: true,
    timings: false,
    assets: true,
    chunks: false,
    modules: false,
    reasons: true,
    children: false,
    source: true,
    errors: true,
    errorDetails: true,
    warnings: true,
    publicPath: true,
  },
};
// Hold a webpack dev server that we can start and reload
const devserver = require('./tools/tasks/webpack-dev-server');
```

Feel free to change the stats as needed until webpack outputs what you want. This is a decent amount of information for both clean & broken compiles, but you may want more or less.
